Large Language Model Applications: What Makes Them
So Useful?
The nature of LLMs makes them suitable for a wide range of tasks. With text generation
and prompting, it almost seems as if your imagination is the limit. To illustrate,
let’s explore some common tasks and techniques:
Detecting whether a review left by a customer is positive or negative
This is (supervised) classification and can be handled with both encoder- and
decoder-only models either with pretrained models (see Chapter 4) or by finetuning
models (see Chapter 11).
Developing a system for finding common topics in ticket issues
This is (unsupervised) classification for which we have no predefined labels.
We can leverage encoder-only models to perform the classification itself and
decoder-only models for labeling the topics (see Chapter 5).
Building a system for retrieval and inspection of relevant documents
A major component of language model systems is their ability to add external
resources of information. Using semantic search, we can build systems that allow
us to easily access and find information for an LLM to use (see Chapter 8).
Improve your system by creating or fine-tuning a custom embedding model (see
Chapter 12).
Constructing an LLM chatbot that can leverage external resources, such as tools and
documents
This is a combination of techniques that demonstrates how the true power of
LLMs can be found through additional components. Methods such as prompt
engineering (see Chapter 6), retrieval-augmented generation (see Chapter 8), and
fine-tuning an LLM (see Chapter 12) are all pieces of the LLM puzzle.
Constructing an LLM capable of writing recipes based on a picture showing the products
in your fridge
This is a multimodal task where the LLM takes in an image and reasons about
what it sees (see Chapter 9). LLMs are being adapted to other modalities, such as
Vision, which opens a wide variety of interesting use cases.
LLM applications are incredibly satisfying to create since they are partially bounded
by the things you can imagine. As these models grow more accurate, using them in
practice for creative use cases such as role-playing and writing children’s books simply
becomes more and more fun.